Life in Ur was comfortable.
We had all the modern conveniences.
Then Trahova gave us an assignment we never expected.
One that meant saying goodbye to the life we loved.
But rather than look behind, Abraham and I looked ahead.
We had seen Trahova's hand in our lives and we knew he would be with us every step of the journey.
And he was in ways that surprised us.
Ways we never could have imagined.
Trahova did more than help us.
He fulfilled his every promise.
Saying goodbye is never easy.
And even though we were excited about our new LDC assignment,
it was going to take us further than we'd ever been.
It wasn't just a new routine.
It was a holy way of life.
With each new movement project, we thought about Sarah.
She focused on the good things ahead.
And not on what she had left behind.
And that's what we tried to do.
Trahova's been so good to us.
We didn't always know where the next project would take us.
But we did know that Trahova would be with us every step of the way.
Jericho was doomed.
People were scared.
When the Israelite men showed up at my door, there was barely time to think.
But I knew what was at stake.
Even as a young girl, I had heard all the stories.
Trahova wasn't like the other gods.
He had dried up the waters of the Red Sea and given his people victory over the Amorites.
If I helped these men, I knew Jehovah would help me.
For the first time in my life, I was standing with Jehovah's people on Jehovah's side.
And my faith was being rewarded.
There was no doubt about it.
I had found the truth.
So, why did I feel so anxious?
I knew how mom felt about the holidays.
I also learned how Jehovah felt.
They displeased him.
Some changes in my life were easy to make.
But I really needed Jehovah's help for what I had to do next.
I loved my mom so much.
When I explained that I wouldn't celebrate the holidays anymore,
I could tell that she was hurt.
But I knew I was doing the right thing.
And prayed that Jehovah would help her understand.
Holiday season like no other.
Like this 36 megapixel DSLR camera kit for just $3.99.
Or would you believe this 65-inch 4K UHG Smart TV is only $8.49?
Hurry in before it's gone because the...
I admit I was surprised when she said she wanted to learn more.
What a blessing.
Thanks to Jehovah, I had found the truth.
And now, maybe my family would find it too.
I couldn't sleep or eat.
I felt my hopes and dreams slipping away.
But even if no one else really understood me,
I knew Jehovah would.
I told him everything.
I knew that the God of justice
would set all matters right in his own time and in his own way.
Jehovah answered my prayer in such a wonderful way.
I never forgot where this incredible blessing had come from.
There is no rock like our God.
I could tell from the doctor's voice the news wasn't good.
I just didn't expect my health to worsen so quickly.
I tried to act like everything was fine.
But I was fine.
But I wasn't.
I came to Jehovah knowing he would listen and understand.
That's what got me through.
No one really knew what I was going through.
Not even my friends.
I felt like Hannah.
Totally misunderstood.
But she had faith that Jehovah would set matters straight.
And he did.
For Hannah and for me.
But more than that,
it reminded me that I wouldn't have to deal with this illness alone.
I remember the day the soldiers took me away.
I had never felt more alone.
My home, my friends.
Everything I knew was gone.
But I still had Jehovah.
The master of the house was very sick.
He was in pain.
Elijah could help him.
I had heard about Elijah's miracles.
He had even raised the dead.
I knew Elijah could cure him.
And Jehovah gave me the courage to speak up.
I was taken from my home.
My husband.
And my spiritual family.
I was imprisoned for my faith.
It was another world.
It wasn't easy staying strong.
Every time I asked for a Bible,
the answer was no.
But God's word was already in my heart.
So I did what I loved the most.
I talked about God's kingdom.
Many of those I preached to seemed cold at first.
But genuine love and the warmth of God's word
just seemed to melt their hearts.
I'm speaking up, took more courage than I thought I had.
But not more courage than Jehovah could give me.
It was hard to look beyond the locks and uniforms.
But God's will is that all sorts of people learn about him.
So I spoke about my God, Jehovah.
I knew that even behind prison bars,
Jehovah would give me the strength to help others.
I was engaged to Mary Joseph.
I thought we would have a simple and quiet life.
And then suddenly everything changed.
I know that God sometimes asks us to do what is difficult.
But this seemed impossible beyond anything we could handle.
But I knew I was safe in Jehovah's hands.
If we remained loyal to him and did our best to care for his precious son,
he would always be loyal to us and give us what we needed.
When they first told me, I thought it must have been a mistake.
I mean, me?
Oversee a department at an international convention.
I felt like it was just too much to handle.
I remembered that I thought the same thing years ago.
When I was asked to serve on a disaster relief committee
and when I served on the hospital liaison committee,
actually, I've always felt that way when I've received an assignment from Jehovah.
But what I've learned is he's always ready to help.
So when Jehovah asked me to do something that seems difficult,
I just remind myself to pray, stay loyal,
and have faith that he'll give me what I need.
No, I was not Jewish.
But I saw that this Jesus was no ordinary man.
I had heard about his power to help others and my daughter was suffering.
I wouldn't take no for an answer.
I couldn't.
This man was from God.
There was nowhere else to turn.
I had faith in Jesus.
When he heard me, he said, let it happen to you as you wish.
And then it did.
My beautiful precious daughter was healthy and smiling again.
I never thought it would happen.
I finally found what I'd been searching for.
A good relationship with God.
Then one day, a coworker texted an article that claimed to expose Jehovah's Witnesses.
I was tempted to read it and then I thought back
to when I first met Jehovah's Witnesses.
I was so excited about what they taught me from the Bible.
That God's name is Jehovah,
the kingdom is a real government, and so much more.
Why would I want to learn about Jehovah's Witnesses from their enemies?
But my friends, not so much.
I saw people who really love one another.
It's a real brotherhood.
But it wasn't just the people.
This was the truth.
I didn't need to learn about Jehovah's Witnesses from their enemies.
I had seen for myself that the worship to true God, Jehovah.
During those first few days, everything was a blur.
My sister Mary and I had never felt so empty and lost.
I knew that if our Lord had been here,
our brother would not have died.
But through the tears and the pain,
I had no doubt that the resurrection was real.
That someday, someday he would live again.
Who could have imagined it could happen that very day?
And right before our eyes,
we wept tears of joy and thanked our loving father in heaven, Jehovah.
I lost my son. I lost part of myself.
I tried to stay busy, but everything felt empty.
In my darkest times,
Jehovah's words brought me comfort.
Not a day goes by that I don't think about Brandon.
Not just memories of how it was.
But even more, how wonderful it'll be to see him soon.
In God's new world.
For nearly a year,
I had been held in solitary confinement
in a tiny filthy, bug-infested prison cell.
Five and a half years after my arrest,
I was released.
If we truly rely on Jehovah,
really love him and cry out in a heart for his help,
just as he did not forsake me,
he will not forsake his servants.
They arrested me and took me and for questioning.
An interrogator invited me to sign a document
stating that I would discontinue preaching.
I said,
I would rather live in prison with my relationship with God intact,
than be free and lose his approval.
My determination has been to hit the Bible admonition.
Trust in Jehovah and do good.
I have learned that doing this leads to receiving the requests of your heart.
As the world went from bad to worse,
I dug deeper into God's word.
I wanted to stay strong like so many brothers and sisters in the past.
Those who remain faithful had no special abilities and were inconspicuous.
Surely all of us must always trust in Jehovah
with all our heart.
I memorized scriptures.
I knew these words would build my faith
and give me the strength I needed to face what was to come.
Just to code this week,
as local authorities enforce new restrictions on Jehovah's Witnesses,
this is coming just 14 days after this.
Trust in Jehovah and do what is good.
Reside in the earth and act with faithfulness.
Find exquisite delight in Jehovah
and he will grant you the desires of your heart.
We had to be more discreet,
but we never stopped talking about God's word.
We had to face many difficulties,
but with God's word embedded in our hearts,
we faithfully endured it to the end.